1.	Why are you interested in programming? What have you done to expose yourself to programming so far?**

When I moved to Seattle in 2012, I got involved in the local tabletop gaming scene in order to meet people. The vast majority of my newfound friends were software engineers and testers, and I suppose it makes a certain amount of sense that people with exceptional problem-solving skills would gravitate to both gaming and programming. In fact, many of my friends told me that I would make a good programmer myself, based on how well I played strategy games. I decided to try the “Make a Website” course at [Codecademy](http://codecademy.com), and before long, I was hooked.

Codecademy was a great way to learn the basics of programming, but I wanted to learn more, so I began taking classes through [Code Fellows](www.codefellows.org) here in Seattle. I completed Foundations I – which covered HTML, CSS, basic JavaScript and a bit of jQuery – and Foundations II: Ruby. I loved coding in Ruby, but was disappointed with the program. My instructors were often aloof and getting feedback on my work was like pulling teeth. I’ve come to Ada seeking an environment better suited to my learning style and an opportunity to work with other talented female programmers.


**2.	What are your professional goals for the next 2 years, the next 5 years?**

Though I have some experience programming, I wouldn’t say I’m comfortable enough with any of the languages I’ve surveyed and I’m still unsure what type of programming I’d like to do professionally. During my year at the Ada Academy, I aim to increase my proficiency with JavaScript and Ruby and, more importantly, to decide whether I’d like to be a front-end or back-end web developer. Within a year of graduation (two years from now), I’d like to be “fluent” in both JavaScript and Ruby – expressing myself clearly, accurately, and idiomatically – and to that end, I plan to practice my syntax and try to expand my vocabulary just as deliberately as I did when I studied spoken languages in college.

It’s hard to say exactly what sorts of projects I’ll be undertaking five years from now, but in general, I’d like to be working on a team of talented and well-rounded developers at a company that values what I have to contribute. Writing will always be my greatest passion in life, however, and I hope to spend my spare time using my newfound coding skills to tell stories in new ways.


**3.	Tell us about a time you made a mistake that you learned a lot from. If you encountered the situation again, what would you do differently?**

Three years ago, I accepted an internship at *The Stranger* and worked directly with several of the paper’s music critics. Though the typical intern duties involved updating the concert calendar and proofreading blurbs about bands that were playing in Seattle, I was offered many opportunities to post my own reviews and editorials. With my editor’s approval, I started my own music satire column, wherein I wrote humorous open letters to assorted musicians. I immensely enjoyed writing the column until I started receiving vicious comments from trolls. My boss liked my first couple articles and encouraged me to keep it up, but the backlash was more than I could take. I discontinued the column within a few weeks, and my internship ended shortly thereafter.

Thick skins take time to grow, of course, but I still feel it was a mistake to let a few angry voices silence me. Two years of freelancing and six months of co-hosting an all-female podcast have helped me gain confidence in my own voice. I have a much better filter for audience responses nowadays: I have productive discussions with reasonable readers, and I try to ignore the unreasonable ones.


**4.	Have you taught yourself anything before? Describe what you learned and how you approached it.**

Since I graduated from college three years ago, I’ve taught myself how to do quite a few things – I’ve mastered several strategy games, learned to cook, and recently took up indoor rock climbing. My proudest accomplishment, however, has been learning how to train a dog. In the summer of 2014, my boyfriend and I adopted a Corgi puppy from a breeder, and I was to be his primary caretaker. I had never had a pet and was terrified of dogs, but my boyfriend assured me that some simple internet research would do the trick.

I spent the five weeks between our approval date and Kirby’s homecoming learning everything I could about Corgis. I read articles on how to be an effective “pack leader” and asked my breeder every question I could think of. I made a checklist of all the things I needed to expose Kirby to in his first few weeks home so he wouldn’t be skittish later in life. I spent ten hours a day training Kirby, and it paid off: he was potty-trained within a week, he could go on a 3-mile walk with me within a month, and he behaved well with humans and other dogs.